# Computational-Drug-Discovery
Drugs which are essentially made of proteins to act on a target is very difficult to produce because the process is completely random and also testing them is a big process. To avoid all this, the technique of Machine Learning is involved applied in ChEMBL database. It is a manually curated database of millions of bioactive molecules which has drug like properties. It helps us in providing the chemical, bioactivity and genomic data to help discover effective new drugs with the available genomic information. The datas are used by research scholars as it is real data.
Computational Drug Discovery(CDD) is a method where a number of compounds formed are taken and decided whether they are suitable for a particular target. With the amount of data available today, we have a chance to train a regressor model to predict the chance of the drug. IC50(half inhibitory concentration) values are standard values which is very important in determing the possibility of usage of the new drug for a disease. IC50 values are used to measure the drug concentration required to inhibit the target by half in fixed time(2 days). Since the time measured is the same for all compounds, the lower the IC50 values, the better is the drug compound for usage. Lipinski descripators are used in identifying the drug likeliness using Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism and Excretion(ADME). Lipinski rules states that an orally active drug has no more than one viloation of the following criterias:                                                                                                                                                 
No more than 5 hydrogen bond donors (the total number of nitrogen–hydrogen and oxygen–hydrogen bonds)                                                                             
No more than 10 hydrogen bond acceptors (all nitrogen or oxygen atoms)                                                                                                           
A molecular mass less than 500 daltons                                                                                                                                           
An octanol-water partition coefficient (log P) that does not exceed 5.

Google colab is an easy tool used in computing such synthesis using python programming and machine learning knowledge.

First, libraries are installed. ChEMBL web service package are free libraries which should be installed in order to retrieve bioactivity data from the ChEMBL Database. Then necessary libraries are imported in order to start computing.
A target protein is searched in the database, for example Anoctamin. The required bioactivity data is selected and retrieved using the fifth entry "target_chembl_id" which corresponds to the target protein. In the case of Anoctamin, let the selected bioactivity data be for Human Anoctamin-1.
Further, the retrieved bioactivity data for the chosen target id is reported as pChEMBL values. This implies the drug compounds are collected that react only to the disease here Anoctamin-1. After retrieving the bioactivity data, there are chances of missing data or duplicate data. Easiest way to handle these are to drop the rows which has missing standard_value and canonical_smiles. And then the duplicates are to be deleted by using the unique values of canonical_smiles. Finally raw bioactivity data is obtained.
Next data preprocessing of the bioactivity data is done for filtering the unwanted columns and labelling the compounds based on their IC50 values. A dataframe consisting of 3 columns molecule_chembl_id,canonical_smiles,standard_value with an additional column named bioactivity_class is retrieved from the main data frame. This is the prepocessed data. Now the compounds are labelled as either being active, inactive or intermediate based on the bioactivity data which is in IC50 unit. Compounds having values of less than 1000 nM will be considered to be active while those greater than 10,000 nM will be considered to be inactive. As for those values in between 1,000 and 10,000 nM will be referred to as intermediate. This is the curated data and is saved into a CSV file.

While the step 1 was about determing the curated data, step 2 is about performing descriptor calculation using the above mentioned lipinski criterias. Conda and rdkit are installed. Load the CSV file of curated bioactivity data. Libraries are imported. The descriptors are calculated for each of the rows in curated dataframe. The curated dataframe and the lipinski dataframe is combined.
For the data to be more uniformly distributed, IC50 is converted to pIC50 which is -log10(IC50 * 10^-9). This pIC50 values are added into the dataframe and the standard_value column is dropped. Finally the dataframe is filtered using the lipinski rule of 5 and the final dataframe reveals the fact that those are the drug like compounds which can be used. Note that this is only used to eliminate drugs that aren't used for oral purposes.
Finally the desired computation is obtained using lipinski descriptors, these results can also be obtained from padel descriptors which involves the concepts of linear regression, random forests, etc.
